add(epp) : applications-nginx-plus-restapi EN (#330)
centreon/centreon-documentation: en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-nginx-plus-restapi.md

---
id: applications-nginx-plus-restapi
title: Nginx Plus Restapi
---

## Overview

NGINX Plus is a software load balancer, web server, and content cache built on top of open source NGINX.

The Centreon Plugin and Plugin-Packs rely on the Nginx Plus Rest API to collect the status of the Nginx resources.

## Plugin Pack Assets

### Monitored Objects

* Applications
* Web Server
* Load Balancer
* Content cache

### Collected Metrics

More information about collected metrics is available in the official Nginx Plus API documentation: https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/load-balancer/dynamic-configuration-api/

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Connections-->

| Metric name                 | Description                    |
| :-------------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| connections.active.count    | Number of active connections   |
| connections.idle.count      | Number of idle connections     |
| connections.accepted.count  | Number of accepted connections |
| connections.dropped.count   | Number of dropped connections  |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| :------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------- |
| http.$name.zone.requests.persecond                      | Requests http-zone per second. Unit : /s                 |
| http.$name.zone.requests.discarded.count                | Number of requests http-zone discarded.                  |
| http.$name.zone.traffic.in.bitspersecond                | Traffic in of http-zone in Bytes per second. Unit : b/s  |
| http.$name.zone.traffic.out.bitspersecond               | Traffic out of http-zone in Bytes per second. Unit : b/s |
| http.$name.zone.responses.total.count                   | Number total of http-zone responses                      |
| http.$name.zone.responses.[1xx,2xx,3xx,4xx,5xx].count   | Number 1xx,2xx,3xx,4xx,5xx of http-zone responses        |

<!--Ssl-->

| Metric name                      | Description                     |
| :------------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| ssl.handshakes.succeeded.count   | Number of handshakes succeeded  |
| ssl.handshakes.failed.count      | Number of handshakes failed     |

> | ssl.sessions.reuses.count        | Number of sessions reuses       |

Reviewer: SSL Handshakes and SSL sessions ;-)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Prerequisites

> ### API Privileges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> A service account is required to request the Nginx Plus API. It needs to have sufficient reading privileges in the environment.

Reviewer: Link to the official documentation ?

Author: Added link of official documentation.

> ## Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online IMP Licence & IT-100 Editions-->

1. Install the Centreon Plugin on every poller monitoring Nginx Plus resources: :

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Nginx-Plus-Restapi.noarch
```

2. On the Centreon Web interface in "Configuration > Plugin packs > Manager", install the *Nginx Plus* Plugin-Pack

<!--Offline IMP License-->

1. Install the Centreon Plugin on every poller monitoring Nginx Plus resources :

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Applications-Nginx-Plus-Restapi.noarch
```

2. On the Centreon Central server, install the Centreon Plugin-Pack from the RPM:

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-applications-nginx-plus-restapi.noarch
```

3. On the Centreon Web interface in "Configuration > Plugin packs > Manager", install the *Nginx Plus* Plugin-Pack

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Configuration

> ### Host
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This Plugin-Pack is designed to have in Centreon one host per Nginx Plus environment.
Adding a host into Centreon, link it to the template named *App-Nginx-Plus-Restapi-custom*.
Once the template applied, some Macros have to be configured:
| Mandatory | Name        | Description                                      |
| :-------- | :---------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| X         | APIPORT     | Port used (Default: 443)                         |
| X         | APIPROTO    | Specify https if needed (Default: 'https')       |
| X         | APIUSERNAME | Nginx basic username                             |
| X         | APIPASSWORD | Nginx basic password.                            |

> | X         | APIPATH     | Specify api path (Default: '/api/6')             |

Reviewer: No EXTRAOPTION available ?

Author: Macro Extraoption added.

## FAQ

> ### How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to test the Plugin and what are the main options for ?
```

Once the Plugin installed, log into your poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test 
by running the following command (Parameters such as ```api-username``` or ```api-path``` have to be adjusted):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_nginx_plus_restapi.pl \
    --plugin=apps::nginx::nginxplus::restapi::plugin \
	--mode=connections \
	--port='443' \
	--proto='https' \
	--api-username='myapiuser' \
	--api-password='myapipassword' \
	--api-path='/api/6' \

> 	--filter-counters='mycountersfilter' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

	--warning-active='60' \
	--critical-active='80'
	--warning-idle='8' \
	--critical-idle='10' \
    --warning-accepted='50' 
	--critical-accepted='65' \
	--warning-dropped='3' \
    --critical-dropped='5' \

> 	--verbose

Reviewer: Align the options

Reviewer: No --hostname option required ?

Author: Added --hostname option

	

OK: Active : 5, Idle : 0, Accepted : 5, Dropped : 0|
'connections.active.count'=5;;60;80; 'connections.idle.count'=1;;8;10; 'connections.accepted.count'=5;;50;65; 'connections.dropped.count'=0;;3;5;
```

The above command controls the Nginx Plus connections (```--mode=connections```).
This command will trigger a WARNING alarm if the active connections increase to 60 (```--warning-active='60'```)

> and a CRITICAL alarm if it increases to 80 (```--critical-active='80'```).

Reviewer: Enhance the description of the command (mode/plugin path/).

Author: Added description of the command

All the options that can be used with this plugin can be found over the ```--help``` command:

> ```/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_nginx_plus_restapi.pl --plugin=apps::nginx::nginxplus::restapi::plugin --mode=connections --help```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_nginx_plus_restapi.pl --plugin=apps::nginx::nginxplus::restapi::plugin --mode=connections --help
```
```

Author: Done!

### How do I remove the *count* perfdatas if I want to filter on just one application ?

The Plugin adds the count of objects by default. This can be useless if the objects are filtered with the ```--filter-name``` parameter.

> Therefore, these useless perfdatas can be omitted by adding a perfdata filter : ```--filter-perfdata='^$'```.

Reviewer: Could you add a part on the most common errors :
https://docs.centreon.com/current/en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/network-cisco-meraki-restapi.html#why-do-i-get-the-following-error

Author: Added informatino on most common errors.

| :-------- | :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| X         | APIPORT         | Port used (Default: 443)                                                   |
| X         | APIPROTO        | Specify https if needed (Default: 'https')                                 |
| X         | APIUSERNAME     | Nginx basic username                                                       |
| X         | APIPASSWORD     | Nginx basic password.                                                      |
| X         | APIPATH         | Specify api path (Default: '/api/6')                                       |
|           | APIEXTRAOPTIONS | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (eg. a --verbose flag) |

## FAQ

### How to test the Plugin and what are the main options for ?

Once the Plugin installed, log into your poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test 
by running the following command (Parameters such as ```api-username``` or ```api-path``` have to be adjusted):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_nginx_plus_restapi.pl \
	--plugin=apps::nginx::nginxplus::restapi::plugin \
	--mode=connections \

> 	--hostname='mynginxplus.com'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	--hostname='mynginxplus.com' \
```

	--port='443' \
	--proto='https' \
	--api-username='myapiuser' \
	--api-password='myapipassword' \
	--api-path='/api/6' \
	--warning-active='60' \
	--critical-active='80'
	--warning-idle='8' \
	--critical-idle='10' \
	--warning-accepted='50' 
	--critical-accepted='65' \
	--warning-dropped='3' \
	--critical-dropped='5' \
	--verbose

OK: Active : 5, Idle : 0, Accepted : 5, Dropped : 0|
'connections.active.count'=5;;60;80; 'connections.idle.count'=1;;8;10; 'connections.accepted.count'=5;;50;65; 'connections.dropped.count'=0;;3;5;
```

> The above command check the Nginx Plus connections (```--mode=connections```) having the Nginx basic username _myapiuser_ (```--api-username='myapiuser'```), 
> as a password _myapipassword_ (```--api-password='myapipassword'```) and API URL path by default _/api/6_ (```--api-path='/api/6'```).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command checks the Nginx PLus connections (```--mode=connections```).
It uses an api-username (```--api-username='myapiuser'```), an api-password (```--api-password='myapipassword'```)
and it connects to the host *mynginxplus.com* (```--hostname='mynginxplus.com'```) on the port 443 (```--port='/443'```)
on the url */api/6* (```--api-path='/api/6'```) using https (```--proto='https'```).
```
